[ci skip] Add initial Puma support document (#3700)
puma/puma: docs/puma_support.md

> # Puma Support Policy

Author: We have bundler version specific code too, should add a policy for that as well.

```
    if bundler_ver < Gem::Version.new('2.1.0')
      Bundler.with_clean_env { yield }
    else
      Bundler.with_unbundled_env { yield }
    end
```

> 

Author: CPU Architecture and/or Operating system support. Right now we have 2 versions of ubuntu, 3 versions of mac OS and 1 version of windows. We also test an additional ARM architecture ubuntu image.

For windows, our support is "ci will run on at least A version of windows." For Mac there's a policy but it seems not clearly spelled out on their pages (but is observable) this is second hand https://endoflife.date/macos. For Ubuntu there's a policy https://ubuntu.com/about/release-cycle. But I also think we can support X versions even if they're not all on CI but I'm not sure what that looks like.  

I'm wondering how valuable/important some of those variants are in CI. Could we get away with only testing A version of mac (the most recent) and the most recent ubuntu on ARM and AMD architectures? That woul allow us to drop 1 ubuntu and 2 macos versions in CI. That would take us from 7 to 4 OS variants which would represent (in theory a 42% decrease in number of CI runs).

IDK how sensitive the C extensions and updates are to these OS-es.

Reviewer: Re CI runs, IDK.  Currently, OSS orgs have concurrency limits of 20 ubuntu/windows jobs, and 5 macOS jobs.

If a goal is to shorten CI, I think the macOS jobs are currently defining how long CI takes.  I'm not a longtime macOS user, but are there many differences between macos-14 & macos-15?  If not, we could reduce the number of jobs in one or the other.

Re Windows, we are testing on both x64 and arm, for quite a while there was a bug in MSVC that screwed Windows Ruby builds.  That's been fixed (by MSFT), so we could switch a few jobs to windows-2025.

Author: > If a goal is to shorten CI

Right now, it's a maintainability/sustainability goal. Virtually no PR passes without having to re-run something and it takes a long time to wait for the full runs, and contributors without commit cannot trigger a re-run on their own. Fewer total tests run hopefully mean fewer flappy failures, and overall decreased PR-to-review-to-merge time. 

It's relevant to the "what we support" because how we define "supported" and how we deliver that "support" affect the costs to deliver changes to puma (negatively or positively). If we can find a policy that allows us to safely claim maximum support with minimal CI overhead that's idea. But only if we think it's reasonable (in the same way that we will only run the latest Ruby patch version on CI).

> are there many differences between macos-14 & macos-15

As an end user, not really. But there's occasionally stuff like https://bugs.ruby-lang.org/issues/21111 which can affect compilation. I'm usually on the latest version or at most one version behind.

I kind of wish there was a better way to get some metrics like "X number of prs were blocked by suite Y" and be able to dig into which ones. I could ask on Mastodon, perhaps.

When a new major (and sometimes minor) version is released, Puma maintainers will try to preserve the status of the old version via branches and/or tags. Puma maintainers can choose to backport fixes to older versions and cut a release of older versions, but this behavior should not be assumed.

If a bug report cannot be reproduced with the latest Puma version, it may be closed.

## Ruby version support policy

 "Ruby version" refers to the https://github.com/ruby/ruby implementation. Puma also supports other Ruby implementations (the origin of Puma involves an alternate Ruby implementation, rubinius) see below.

Puma supports "Ruby upstream + 2 versions". Ruby upstream support is documented at this page https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/branches/. At this time of writing, it is 3 "minor" versions, where a minor version is X.Y with X.Y.Z being a patch release. If a Ruby version is not EOL, it is supported. Because we support "+ 2 versions", if 3.2 is the last non-EOL version, Puma will support 3.1 and 3.0 as well. The Puma team recommends you always use the latest Ruby release.

> When Puma supports a Ruby version, it will include that version in the CI matrix. The gemspec specifies the minimum supported Ruby versions. If a bug is reported, the report must be reproducible on a currently supported Ruby version.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Puma supports a Ruby version, it will include that version in the CI matrix. The gemspec specifies the minimum supported Ruby versions. If a bug is reported, the report must be reproducible using the most recent patch version of a currently supported Ruby minor version.

```

Reviewer: As discussed, maybe some additional text referring to 'most recent Ruby patch version'.

Not sure if the above is clear or whether an example would help.  Something like:

As an example, the current Ruby 3.4 patch version is 3.4.5.  If a Puma bug is found with Ruby 3.4.4 (or earlier) that isn’t reproducible with Ruby 3.4.5, it is up to the Puma team to decide if a Puma fix will be accepted.

Puma may rely on upstream support to fix bugs in Ruby rather than working around them. That means, if a bug exists only in a "+2 version" that is no longer supported upstream, it may be closed (it's not guaranteed that we will workaround legacy Ruby issues).

## Alternate implementations of Ruby (version support policy)

An example of an "alternate" implementation of Ruby is JRuby. Ruby implementations typically target a specific "spec" of ruby/ruby, for example, JRuby 10.0.2.0 targets ruby/ruby version 3.4.2. The target version of a supported implementation must be within the above "Ruby version support policy." Additionally, the implementation release must be supported upstream.

Puma supports the JRuby implementation. Puma supports the TruffleRuby implementation.

## Rack (and SPEC) version support

From the current Rack documentation https://github.com/rack/rack?tab=readme-ov-file#version-support, Rack lists support levels to be:

- Bug fixes and security patches
- Security patches only
- End of support

> Puma will support any Rack version that still accepts "bug fixes" in addition to security patches.

Reviewer: Current Rack doc shows:

| Version  | Support                            |
|----------|------------------------------------|
|    3.2.x | Bug fixes and security patches.    |
|    3.1.x | Security patches only.             |
|    3.0.x | End of support.                    |
|    2.2.x | Security patches only.             |
| <= 2.1.x | End of support.                    |

Puma will support Rack versions 2.2.x, 3.1.x, and 3.2.x.  Current CI tests against current Rack 2 & 3 versions.

## How to update this document?

Generally, you shouldn't suggest changes to policies in this document unless you have committed to the Puma project.

Non-committers:

- Spelling fixes are fine; do not re-grammar or "refactor" the wording.
- Updating stale details derived from the policies is fine. For example, if a canonical URL changes or if specific upstream versions are listed.

Committers:

- Suggest whatever policy changes you feel are appropriate.
- Suggest improvements to the wording or consistency or presentation of information.
- Do not merge policy changes without oversight of other "significant" contributors.
- When reviewing a policy change, please mark comments as either blocking or non/blocking. Please try to make blocking comments either satisfiable or falsifiable.

> 

Reviewer 2: That these projects can suggest policy changes?

> 

Author: The location of my comment isn't relevant, I just needed a newline to start a new discussion. Interesting thought though.

I think Aaron or Raphael should be able to ask us personally "hey can you do us a favor and support XYZ" but its ultimately our call. I don't think we suggest that those external teams control setting our policy. Though there is precedent for some overlap between teams 😅 .

We could match the Ruby version policy and say "EOL + 2 years." That policy would reinforce the decision to continue supporting Sinatra 3.2.0 as it won't be two years until December 29, 2025. Rails 7.2 is EOL August 9th 2025 https://rubyonrails.org/maintenance so supporting it until August 9th 2027 seems reasonable.
